Add documentation around SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES (#593)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/administration/access-control/manage-privileges.adoc

image::privileges_hierarchy.svg[title="Graph privileges hierarchy"]

[[access-control-list-supported-privileges]]
== Listing supported privileges

Supported privileges can be displayed using the `SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES` command.

> This lists the privileges that are possible to grant or deny on this server, together with the structure of the privilege.

Reviewer: Why would different servers have different sets of applicable privileges? Trying to understand if it is always a server behaviour or if there might be different applicable privileges per database or per user?

Reviewer 2: I think it's per server, could be different on different servers if they have different versions (one has newer privileges that isn't supported yet on the servers with earlier version)

Author: yes, what privileges are supported depends on the server version, not which database or user

Reviewer: Great, just making sure this is a conscious choice of words 👍

.Show supported privileges command syntax
[cols="<15s,<85"]
|===

| Command
m| +SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES+

| Syntax
a|
[source, syntax, role="noheader", indent=0]
----
SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGE[S]
  [YIELD { * \| field[, ...] } [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
  [WHERE expression]
  [RETURN field[, ...] [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
----
| Description
| List all privileges supported by the server.

|===

When using the `RETURN` clause, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.

Results will include multiple columns describing the privileges:

[options="header", width="100%", cols="4m,6a,2m"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

| action
| The privilege action
| STRING

| qualifier
| Qualifier to further limit the target of the privilege, null if not applicable
| STRING

| target
| Target of the privilege: `dbms`, `database` or `graph`
| STRING

| scope

> | List of possible scopes for the privilege, null if not applicable

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to have some description of which scopes and qualifiers are available and what they mean

| LIST OF STRING

| description
| A short description of the privilege
| STRING

|===

[[access-control-list-supported-privileges-example]]
=== Examples for listing supported privileges

[source, cypher, role=noplay]
----
SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES YIELD * ORDER BY action DESC LIMIT 10 RETURN action, qualifier, target, scope, description
----

Lists 10 supported privileges:

.Result
[options="header,footer", width="100%", cols="m,m,m,m,m"]
|===
|action
|description
|target
|scope

> |qualifier

Reviewer: We've got 'description' and 'qualifier' swapped in the header compared to the rows it seems

| "show settings"
| "setting"
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to query given configuration settings"

| "show transactions"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows listing transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "show user"
| NULL
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to list users"

| "start"
| NULL
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows the specified database to be started"

| "stop"
| NULL
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows the specified database to be stopped"

| "terminate transactions"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows ending transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "transaction management"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows listing and ending transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "traverse"
| NULL
| "graph"
| ["elements", "nodes", "relationships"]
| "enables the specified entities to be found"

| "user management"
| NULL
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to create, delete, modify, and list users"

> | "write"

Reviewer 2: If we order descending, shouldn't these be in the opposite order? so `write` is first and `show settings` last?

Author: that is copied from the output of cypher-shell, so I didn't look closely at it, but it seems wrong

Reviewer 2: that is weird then, is there a bug in Cypher shell, ORDER BY, or some admin command rewriting around this? 🤔

Reviewer 2: Running in a temp test on dev:
```
SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES
YIELD *
ORDER BY action DESC
LIMIT 10
RETURN action
ORDER BY action DESC
```
give the expected desc order while omitting the order by on return gives the last 10 result in asc order 🤔

Reviewer 2: Might have missed adding the new show command to `normalizeWithAndReturnClauses` and `expandShowWhere.scala`, not sure if it will help but it seems to be missing from there anyway 🤔

.Show supported privileges command syntax
[cols="<15s,<85"]
|===

| Command
m| +SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES+

| Syntax
a|
[source, syntax, role="noheader", indent=0]
----
SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGE[S]
  [YIELD { * \| field[, ...] } [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
  [WHERE expression]
  [RETURN field[, ...] [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
----
| Description
| List all privileges supported by the server.

|===

When using the `RETURN` clause, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.

Results will include multiple columns describing the privileges:

[options="header", width="100%", cols="4m,6a,2m"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

| action
| The privilege action
| STRING

| qualifier
| Qualifier to further limit the target of the privilege (`function`, `label`, `procedure`, `property`, `setting`, `username`) or null if not applicable
| STRING

| target
| Target of the privilege: `dbms`, `database` or `graph`
| STRING

| scope
| List of possible scopes for the privilege (`elements`, `nodes`, `relationships`) or null if not applicable

> | LIST OF STRING

Reviewer 2: for all of these, do we want to have something that explains what each thing means, for example what does it mean to have a property qualifier?

Author: I don't know how to write that in a good way

Reviewer 2: Maybe have it like a table with examples?

```
| scope | example |
--------------------
| elements | GRANT ... ON GRAPH * ELEMENTS * TO role_name |
| nodesWithProperty | GRANT ... ON GRAPH * NODE A (foo IS NOT NULL) TO role_name | // or whatever it'll be named and decided syntax (this will have to be added later once that is in anyway)
...
```

```
| qualifier | example |
--------------------
| function | GRANT EXECUTE FUNCTION abc* ON ... |
| property | GRANT READ {foo} ON ... |
...
```

image::privileges_hierarchy.svg[title="Graph privileges hierarchy"]

[[access-control-list-supported-privileges]]
== Listing supported privileges

> Supported privileges can be displayed using the `SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_This feature was introduced in Neo4j 5.9._

Supported privileges can be displayed using the `SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES` command.
```

> This lists the privileges that are possible to grant or deny on this server, together with the structure of the privilege.

Reviewer 3: "This" reads like we are talking about a specific server? Can we replace with either "a server", "the currently used server" or something like that?

```suggestion
This lists the privileges that are possible to grant or deny on a server, together with the structure of the privilege.
```

.Show supported privileges command syntax
[cols="<15s,<85"]
|===

| Command
m| +SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGES+

| Syntax
a|
[source, syntax, role="noheader", indent=0]
----
SHOW SUPPORTED PRIVILEGE[S]
  [YIELD { * \| field[, ...] } [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
  [WHERE expression]
  [RETURN field[, ...] [ORDER BY field[, ...]] [SKIP n] [LIMIT n]]
----
| Description
| List all privileges supported by the server.

|===

When using the `RETURN` clause, the `YIELD` clause is mandatory and must not be omitted.

Results will include multiple columns describing the privileges:

[options="header", width="100%", cols="4m,6a,2m"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

| action

> | The privilege action

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| The privilege action.
```

| STRING

| qualifier

> | Qualifier to further limit the target of the privilege (`function`, `label`, `procedure`, `property`, `setting`, `username`) or null if not applicable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Qualifier to further limit the target of the privilege (`function`, `label`, `procedure`, `property`, `setting`, `username`) or null if not applicable.
```

| STRING

| target

> | Target of the privilege: `dbms`, `database` or `graph`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Target of the privilege: `dbms`, `database`, or `graph`.
```

| STRING

| scope

> | List of possible scopes for the privilege (`elements`, `nodes`, `relationships`) or null if not applicable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| List of possible scopes for the privilege (`elements`, `nodes`, `relationships`) or null if not applicable.
```

| LIST OF STRING

| description

> | A short description of the privilege

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| A short description of the privilege.
```

| STRING

|===

If a privilege lists a qualifier, it has to be used in the command by either an identifier or `*` if it should affect all identifiers.

> The qualifiers are used according to the table below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The below table demonstrates how qualifiers are used:
```

> [options="header", width="100%", cols="2m,6a"]

Reviewer 3: The second column should also be monospaced, right?
```suggestion
[options="header", width="100%", cols="2m,6m"]
```

|===
| qualifier | example
| function | \... EXECUTE FUNCTION `abc*` ON ...
| label | \... SET LABEL `A` ON ...
| procedure | \... EXECUTE BOOSTED PROCEDURE `apoc.*` ON ...
| property | \... READ {`property`} ON ...
| setting | \... SHOW SETTINGS `dbms.*` ON ...
| username | \... IMPERSONATE (`username`) ON ...

|===

> If a privilege has a scope, it is optional to specify it. If it isn't explicitly set it will be `ELEMENT *`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is optional to specify the scope of a privilege. 
If it is not specified, the default scope will be `ELEMENT *`.
Note that not all privileges have a scope. 
```

| "user management"
| NULL
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to create, delete, modify, and list users"

| "traverse"
| NULL
| "graph"
| ["elements", "nodes", "relationships"]
| "enables the specified entities to be found"

| "transaction management"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows listing and ending transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "terminate transactions"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows ending transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "stop"
| NULL
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows the specified database to be stopped"

| "start"
| NULL
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows the specified database to be started"

| "show user"
| NULL
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to list users"

| "show transactions"
| "username"
| "database"
| NULL
| "allows listing transactions and queries for the specified users on the specified database"

| "show settings"
| "setting"
| "dbms"
| NULL
| "enables the specified roles to query given configuration settings"

5+a|Rows: 10
|===

[[access-control-list-privileges]]
== Listing assigned privileges

> Privileges that have been granted or denied to roles can be displayed using the following SHOW PRIVILEGE[S] commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Privileges that have been granted or denied to roles can be displayed using the following `SHOW PRIVILEGE[S]` commands.
```
